welcome to a very special episode of
after impact I'm your host Tom bill you
I'm here with agent Smith mr. bill you
what is up in the background in agent
smith camera you will notice that we
have some madness going on literally at
the second that we were supposed to
press go part of our set fell apart
we are preparing that as we speak and as
Agent Smith said we hold for nothing
yeah I'm going to impact Theory intern
army on it
indeed indeed army when Ibrahim back
there do make a magic happen I think
will might be stuff from there as well
so yeah let's rock and roll I'm talking
about Gerard Adam Gerrard Adams so
welcome everyone on Facebook live this
is after impact is the show where Tom
and I go deep into the episode of impact
Theory discuss it pull it apart unpack
it answer your questions about it as
well
so thank you for joining us we're
talking about Gerard Adams today the
episode is called defining the
entrepreneur of tomorrow which is
something he is set on a mission to do
we don't know who he is he is known as
the millennial mentor and the voice of
Generation Y he's an entrepreneur has
had several businesses he's a marketer
he originally founded stock spot which
was worth ten million dollars in 2008
before the stock market crashed and then
he lost everything then he went on and
founded Elite daily which is an online
publication catering to a millennial
audience which he sold to the Daily Mail
for 50 million dollars so had a big
payday there and now he's doing
something called founders that's fo w ND
ers correct which is a social enterprise
startup accelerator in Newark New Jersey
really cool stuff and to top it all off
he has a great head of hair
hahaha so I had to say it yes daddy yeah
what an interview what an interview and
what a guy really really fond of him
he's amazing yeah really cool so I want
to kick it off with you know something
he said about his parents so he told a
story about when he lost everything and
he wasn't sure what to do and he didn't
know how to be vulnerable
his mom came to him and told this
beautiful story about when she was
growing up and their house where their
apartment burned down there and
everything and they had to start over
and I think it was that that's what
really drove him to pick things back up
take himself back up and work hard to
build something again so I want to ask
what do you think you should do when you
don't have that kind of role model as
parents um there's so many stories out
there you know there I love the quote a
fool never learns a smart man learns
from his mistakes and a wise man learns
from the mistakes of others it doesn't
just apply to mistakes like there are
plenty of people that have amazing
stories they've overcome massive
adversity and to be able to tap into
that and to read books like in fact one
of the things that we talked about in
the episodes by the way did they ever
get there
so we in the episode I said look we're
going to send you a hundred copies of
Victor Frankel's man's search for
meaning which is one of the most
important books I've ever read and I
think anybody should read that and it's
about a neuroscientist of all people
that ended up in a concentration camp
during World War two I actually traveled
I believe between five different ones
and ultimately was freed from Auschwitz
and he talks about like what that
process looks like and how you stay
motivated even in something that
horrific and I've extracted so much
value from that book and his story and
I've extracted value from you know
countless other people including
Gerard's that have had obviously much
less adversity but nonetheless like just
really incredible stories that you can
leverage in those moments so you don't
need Gerard's mom to be there in your
own life when Gerard is out there
telling a story and countless other
people are telling their stories of how
they've overcome hardship how they've
doubled back down how they've refocused
how they develop tenacity all that to
overcome nice so the other part of his
story is that he was a bit of a
troublemaker yeah I was a little
surprised well yeah getting into fights
and of course he opened up on this
episode which he said he hadn't talked
about much about how he for a brief time
got into selling weed little bit and had
this moment where
you knew that was you know he had this
flash of inside that this is the wrong
path yeah they're cops banging on his
car window giving you said flash of
insight exactly so again if you haven't
seen the episode you got to go check
that out it's a great story but I wanted
to ask what do you think and this is
sort of a stereotype of a lot of
successful entrepreneurs is that they're
troublemakers why do you think so many
of them have gone on to become
successful
um well so I think that's survivorship
bias right so I think the vast majority
of troublemakers go on to do nothing
productive and they continue be
troublemakers in a very diffuse on
focused way and I don't think it is
naturally advantageous I think there is
a very small minority of people who have
that inclination to be a troublemaker to
question authority to always push back
and they realize at some point that that
instinct can serve them well when it's
focused in a way that's like pushing
back against the rules not accepting
what other people tell you that they're
like they're just less likely to slip
into the sort of societal pressures of
you should be this way and because of
that they're able to act in ways that
are outside the box that are different
that are unique and in doing that
they're going to be able to carve a new
path and it's it's that sort of even
just intellectual or social innovation
that allows them to then build something
because we're moving into an uncrowded
space just because nobody else done it
before but I don't think that well I
think it's a necessary behavior to learn
as an entrepreneur I don't think that
all troublemakers translate into
entrepreneurs I think you'd find it some
of all the troublemakers in the world
it's a very small percentage that going
to be success correlation is not
causation exactly fair enough
we got a question here from Daniel Brees
on Facebook what is live like right now
in a moment yeah where's this we're
already getting rolling in says hi guys
have a question about leadership a good
leader should take full responsibility
for his team so if a teammate or
employee is not doing a good job that
means the leader did not explain things
properly or create the right environment
but where is the line when is it finally
time
say I have to let you go well so that is
the magic question and I don't think
yeah I've never met anybody that I felt
like yeah you really know the perfect
moment and I will very much include
myself in that and especially when
you're going for culture like that's
really big and you want like here's
here's where it gets hard so I want
everyone here to feel safe meaning like
that you're you don't constantly feel
like Oh God like I'm going to lose my
job like you really want to know I can
[__] up and I can [__] up pretty bad and
as long as like everyone knew my
intentions were right and I was like
really working my ass off that I'm going
to be given that safe space to learn
from that grown development that that's
me is so important and in that you're
going to also create a safe space for
people to be careless and reckless and I
think it's better to protect that
environment so the people that really
have good intentions can make those
mistakes knowing that I'm going to drag
along some people that I probably should
have let go to make sure that the right
people have that safety but it you do
get both and so I don't I have yet to
find the perfect answer to knowing when
someone is being sincere and this the
mistake was you know good intentioned
and they're really trying to push so
some of it is trust your instinct and
what I really look for are people that
display lynchpin behaviors if you
display lynchpin behaviors then I'm all
about it it's very easy to see that when
you're a small group it gets very
difficult when you get bigger and so you
really have to trust the people that are
working directly with them and one
question that I ask is does this person
contribute to the environment which is
very difficult to pin down but asking
the question is this workspace more
productive more emotionally safe and
harder charging because I am looking for
people that are really going to push and
in fact I'm going to rat you out for a
second you said something yesterday and
actually loved it and it was like it was
harsh I've never seen you be like so
like cut and dry but somebody couldn't
be here yesterday excited them to take
care of and they were actually then
proving to
be hard to get ahold of on the phone to
be part of the call and you said I'm not
accommodating this again if you want to
be a part of this meeting you've got to
be here and I was like my man because
there do there has to be standards right
and so you've got to draw a line like
you're I think you're one of the
greatest managers I've ever encountered
in my life like you're so thoughtful
about like the team and like what's
their path and like how do we help them
and grow them I think you've got a
strength derive a real weakness so I
really value it but seeing you draw a
line was also very meaningful to me so
there's all that nuance right of where
you have to be encouraging welcoming but
at the same time like there's got to be
a behavioural standard and I think the
group has to pound some people that
don't meet that behavioural standard and
when the group says this environment is
not being made better by this person
than they have to go yeah so I have a
follow-up question to that so as a
manager and thinking about this a lot
like when do you you know one of my
goals and I think a goal for any good
manager is to set your employees up for
success yeah right do whatever you can
to make sure that they can be successful
and that could mean training them giving
them more training giving them more
guidance advising them showing them a
path if they need it but when when does
it become a point we're just propping
someone up and how do you tell the
difference it's I really really believe
you could write it down and you could
say okay here are the things and they
rate a seven here and then a here and a
10 here but a three here I think it's
gut right it's gut of how does this like
my your subconscious processes data so
much more rapidly and so they say faster
and faster so the subconscious can take
in just a massive amount of information
process it and then it feeds you an
emotion so that emotion is literally the
subconscious processes that are running
about every interaction you've had with
that person accumulative over time the
times that they showed up and play the
times that they didn't and I think
really trusting your subconscious to
feed you an accurate emotion is is a
very good idea and the employees that
slowly became toxic for me always before
I acted consciously my feeling about
them began to change over time
and it started they would show up in my
office and I would just have an uneasy
feeling right and then that uneasy
feeling would turn into oh god like I
don't want to see them I don't want in
Iraq and like once you begin to trust
yourself that that's a subconscious
think look on in total like I've taken
all the interactions this is this is
gone now to a place it's not good it's
not happy you should trust that knack on
it so if you've spent the time to train
your instincts by having a code that you
live by by articulating to people what
your expectations are by really
reassessing like what's going on in the
organization are we moving in the right
direction by asking yourself okay I felt
a weird twinge there what is that
analyzing it you will get to the point
where just knowing that who my feelings
are changing here and I've tried like
I've gone through my my belief system so
like I see how you work with people and
trying to set them up for success if you
can honestly answer I've literally done
everything in my power to set them up
for success and I accept that that you
know going back to the initial question
like this is my fault fine but given my
current limitations I can no longer be
of service to this person now they're
dragging the organization down this time
to cut them out so the the short answer
is literally trusting the emotion that
your subconscious pushes forth and then
what do you do to hone that because I
find that it's difficult to go from you
have that gut instinct but then like
articulating that in a way that you can
actually provide the feedback to that
person and communicate to them why
you're perceiving them that way I think
it's better to so I'm going to set aside
what you actually just asked me for a
second and I'm going to answer the
harder question which is what do you do
when you you can't articulate it but
your gut is screaming at you
this person is damaging the environment
meaning the environment of the company
right so the burden is on you to still
communicate something meaningful back to
them about why you're making that
decision and so let's say that you try
and now we're at the edge of your
ability you've tried everything you can
like every ounce of what you know how to
do you have done and until not worked at
that point even if you can't articulate
it you have to part ways like you this
is like you've got some
the overall organism because it becomes
so toxic so fast and then all the other
like sort of healthy tissue if you will
is looking at you going you're letting
this happen you're letting the gangrene
spread and that then begins to erode
your ability to lead and to manage
because people are losing faith in your
ability to do the hard thing which is
alright we get it you're human you have
limitations you're not the perfect
manager you're not the perfect leader
but we have a problem in you're not
addressing it and I have fallen prey to
that so many times because I really
really feel it is my obligation and it's
a failing on my part to help that person
become who they need to be to thrive and
what I've had to realize is way better
to accept I'm currently limited I cannot
succeed with this person one of us like
either the organism has to be thrown out
or they have to go and sure this is
entirely my fault
but I can help you be successful here
thank you so much I you know assuming
they're not like out to really harm the
organization I wish you well and I will
help you find somewhere else and I will
help make this transition as seamless as
possible and because I really do accept
a ton of the responsibility I would be
nothing but optimistic you know and and
positive about all the things that I've
seen you do that are great when trying
to help you you know be a reference for
you um but they got to go fair enough
but that was a rabbit hole that it was
really good nice thank you
for sure Thank You Daniel breeds for
that question then get off I'm not
getting any more questions right now but
thank you Facebook live audience just
want to remind everyone we're here on
after impact this is the show where we
dive deep into the episode of impact
theory and today we're talking about
Gerard Adams aka the Millennial mentor I
got a question
so Gerard had the opportunity this is
something you talked about in the
episode to retire in Miami live the good
life
never work again and then at the last
moment he pulls out he goes back to New
Jersey
sets up founders and starts putting in
the work again to build something is
there any better drug than progress
I think it really might be one of the
most fundamental building blocks to
happiness
so not really I mean there's like I
would probably use slightly different
wording like progress is so critical but
progress in what I think matters so
progress and self development and having
a vision of who you can become and
making progress towards that I think
it's wildly intoxicating but there's
like all of this stuff is nuanced right
so it's also progress in like what are
the goals that I've set out for myself
the worldly goals like people have
worldly goals and are you making
progress in that progress in being able
to close your eyes imagine world open
them and execute are you making progress
on that progress in like getting good at
things that just make you happy right
are you making progress on that so
there's like you could sort of boil that
down to just progress in general but I
think that would be unfair I don't think
all progress is created equal even so
yeah that's a good one all right cool
there's one subject you guys talked
about and you asked your are do you
identify as a born entrepreneur and I
want to get your take on do you believe
in born entrepreneurs no for sure I
think there are born entrepreneurs I
think that so we are all wired okay so
while the human so here's the critical
thing to understand about how I think
and how I think everyone should think we
are not entirely blank slates okay I
think we can all admit that there are
some people who just aren't that bright
and then there's Einstein right so
there's just the ability to process raw
data like we differ in that there are
some people who you know I use she's
Usain Bolt loosing bolt I never exactly
Usain Bolt whatever yeah uh I'm gonna
guess that just on a physiological level
he can relax his hamstrings faster not
because he's worked at it just as a kid
he just could
that's just how he's built but like even
though we all start with like different
gifts and stuff like that there's so
much like unintentional environmental
and
on that and then there's intentional
like deliberate practice that you can do
later in life so humans have become the
apex predator because we are the
absolute best at adaptation so and and I
mean that way more on a neuro
physiological level than I mean even on
a physiological level that we can do
both but I think that our minds are and
I want people to imagine it as as
physically changing so we can our
neurophysiology can rewire itself
through a process called myelination so
incredibly well that the where you start
is so less important than how hard
you're willing to work via the process
of myelination so disciplined practice
to really get good at something the
amount that you can change is so
dramatic that I would say and I don't
like I'm not a born entrepreneur and
Gerard did not succeed because he's a
born entrepreneur he layered on top of
his skills as a born entrepreneur to
maybe get some early wins and that's
probably why he's farther ahead like
he's he's had a level of success much
younger than I did and that's probably
because he was a born entrepreneur and
then that was intentionally
unintentionally reinforced by his
parents being immigrants and like really
pushing work ethic in him and I wasn't a
born entrepreneur my parents weren't
born entrepreneurs so that like
unintentionally was instilled into me to
be a good employee to live for the
weekend you know head down this little
work as possible avoid punishment at all
cost like that's all the things that
that I learned right and so but I
trained my way out of that so I think it
would be foolish to say there are no
born entrepreneurs but people who say
you either are or you aren't that is so
like I'm going to be offensive for a
second it's so ignorant to be human
condition' the way that humans actually
work that I'm surprised that people will
say that it's binary
so unless people are willing to admit
the gray of you can get better at
anything the question is how great can
you get I think it's pretty damn great
so you would say then that everyone is
born something
I'll say that everyone is born wired a
certain way and how does that early
wiring and then reinforced by a family
that may have similar wiring push you
like way down a path before you realize
this is water and so this is all hitting
me right now in real-time so this is
where I think the whole notion of this
is water is so important your parents
are probably stuck and they don't
realize they're in water yet so all the
their value system their belief system
that you know the man is holding you
back or the system is working against
you or whatever that belief system is is
reinforced by their sort of
predisposition so it feels so true
because let's say maybe they're not a
risk taker maybe they're a rule follower
and so falling in line with the system
just feels right to them it feels good
like think about somebody who they they
love so much being an A student getting
praise from the teachers for following
the rules so for them to hear people say
the education system is broken and
doesn't make sense they're like what
like that wouldn't compute for them
because it's been so emotionally
rewarding so this is water for them they
don't realize that all of that is okay
they had a starting point that happened
to match up to their parents starting
point which happens to match up to the
way that the world is so everything like
they're actually enjoying themselves and
having a good time so there is nothing
that sort of startles them out of that
that makes them go whoa I'm I'm
enveloped in a belief system that does
not feel right to me and therefore I'm
going to reject it right so if you take
the matrix for a second they said we
created this utopia where everyone was
happy and we lost entire crops because
you rejected it like there was something
hardwired into you to question the
perfection of that existence and I don't
think there's anything necessarily
Universal like that but I think that we
all have that thing right so I have a
real hard time with authority nobody
told me to have a hard time with
authority I just always did and so I was
always pushing back against my parents
so the moment that like ideologies came
in in the first ideology that I found
that really like mess with my parents
was Taoism and so that was the first
comment really hard on Taoism
around like 1516 and partly because it
was like pushing back against going to
Sunday school and like all that and it
just felt so much more right to me and
and it's fed into like me pushing back
like everything in my little pocket of
Tacoma like that wasn't like that was
not exactly a thing that people were
into so it fed into my my desire to push
back and rebel against Authority part of
the reason that I hate yard work so much
is because that was like in my house you
always had to do chores and like yard
work was one of those chores and I had
to chop wood and carry wood and mow the
lawn and I hated it so much partly
because someone had got to tell me what
to do and then like that that that's
like carried on the sort of lingering
effect so how rapidly you break out of
this is water I think has to do with how
you're wired early upbringing and like
if that if those two aligned I think you
can stay trapped in water for very long
time if there's a misalignment like the
example from the matrix you begin to
question and that questioning is the
beginning of really taking control of
who you want to become of it awesome
alright let's go to a question from
Facebook this is from any good one here
dad I heard they had hair um this is
from Francisco regard he says hi guys
how do you feel about aggressively
promoting a growth mindset in the midst
of disadvantaged community communities
eg the ghetto I'm involved in an
ambitious educational project along
those lines in South America and could
use some insights yes I think that
people should be aggressively promoting
it but the question is you're promoting
the mindset but how are you helping
facilitate the actual exit from the
ghetto and that's something that you
know I'm really trying to answer with
impact theory is how do you create an
invisible curriculum that people don't
realize they're being educated that
allows them to apply it in any direction
they want to go so because not everybody
wants to be an entrepreneur not
everybody wants to start their own
company and in fact I will say that it's
like the math
at all there's no way for everyone to be
a leader okay so if we know that not
like literally not everyone can start
their own company otherwise like the
fabric of society would break apart and
I don't think that that feeds into
people's natural inclinations so how do
you not only teach entrepreneurship in
whatever form guise that comes in but
maybe more importantly and this is
becoming more and more interesting to me
how do you teach people to be linchpin
employees to where they are striving for
greatness but they want to be in an
organization they don't necessarily want
to be out front they don't want to be
the one taking all the risk they aren't
necessarily a risk-taker they're not
somebody who views the world like that
so they're much better is the connective
tissue of the organization but really
really understanding brain plasticity
the pursuit of greatness and how they
can maximize their own potential at
least beyond a lifelong pursuit to do
that
so you have to give them those touch
points where they can have that success
really taste it and what does that look
like in a world that I don't think
currently on the come-up does not value
a linchpin employee and I think linchpin
employees have to overcome a lot of
resistance because what what happens is
the person who owns the company runs the
company they are so desperate for
lynchpin employees they can't see
straight because their life is on the
line right their house like everything
is on the line and they're hungry for
that but then below them are people that
they are not incentivized to have
somebody make them sweat and I think
that's where a lot of this breaks down
is you get somebody who comes in so
let's say you've got like a middle
manager right and they're maybe 15 20
years into their career and have gotten
into a comfortable place they've
accepted their rhythm in life and now
somebody comes along that threatens to
take their job and how shine them and
make them look bad like the physics of
the human mind says that person is not
going to be rewarded by the people sort
of nearly above them right because those
you're going to make them sweat so now
you've got to get really nuanced that
like how do you help them win as well
but all the while not being afraid to
pass
I'm up I was kind of fist bite one time
with somebody this was back when I was
just an employee and almost got in a
fistfight and it was the whole you've
changed because we came in at the same
time and I just wasn't happy staying
there and I wanted to work my way up and
so I was working like 90-hour weeks
sometimes more they literally had to
tell me and so this is how it went I was
working so many hours and I was getting
paid hourly that I was making more money
than other people above me and I
remember the caimans you can't keep
doing that
because now like like that just doesn't
like suit well for that person like it
feels icky for them because they're on
salary yeah and and so I was like what
like I'm clocking so many hours but then
I thought my goal here is to ascend
right so fine I'll clock me out at
whatever time you want but I'm going to
deliver an insane amount of value and so
I would stay with this because this is
back when I was teaching I would stay
with the students until like 10 11
o'clock at night if they because I was
one that could keep the place open so it
was like if they needed to stay and work
like I would just stay stay stay and
like that to me like finding a way to
deal with that and still like ascend is
is a super critical skill so helping
people going back to the initial
question helping people like understand
how to play that game so I'm a big
believer like I'm not interested in
changing the system I'm interested in
looking at the system and going ok this
is the way the world works right now
awesome
now I'm going to succeed within that and
that's why dude when I saw people
occupying Wall Street I was like what
like you're putting your energy into
trying to break the system the quote if
you want to build something new don't
spend any of your time trying to tear
down the old spend all of your time
trying to build the new like that that's
just like my life philosophy
so yeah I'm getting really far afield
this is a very interesting topic but I
will end it there you touched on
something that I wanted to discuss and
you know Gerard didn't come from parents
who were entrepreneurs but they worked
really hard and he said that I think his
mom was a bookkeeper I'm not I don't
think so his dad worked in an insurance
company and his mom
like we're gonna grocery store okay I'm
not sure what she did but he did say
that she went to work everyday she liked
her job she she you know dressed nicely
she had a lot of pride in her work and
wanted to ask what role does pride play
for linchpins I think pride is critical
for everybody I think that pride
becoming one of the seven deadly sins
there is something in there that like it
can get a key like when insecurity and
pride are wound tightly together and so
someone is never had to articulate this
when you have a fixed mindset and you're
proud of something that holds you and
others back
that's when pride is a fool's errand but
you need pride you have to feel good
about yourself you need to have a really
strong self-esteem and so it becomes
really critical what you build your
self-esteem around and that is totally
valuable you can just decide I'm going
to be I'm going to build my self-esteem
around being smart I'm going to build my
self-esteem around being right like
those are dangerous then we'll get you
into horrific positions but you can
build yourself steam around being a
learner being willing to admit when
you're wrong identifying the right
answer like those things are anti
fragile so you have to be very very
careful
so more than I would say that pride in
and of itself is critical for linchpin
building your self-esteem around
something that is anti fragile and moves
you towards your goals is critical for a
linchpin nice all right let's go over to
our Facebook live community again I'm
not sure who is giving any questions now
I'm getting questions both from Cindy
and chase nice to see everybody Jace
about to throw down I think that's from
Jumaane our friend
Jumaane in the house yeah he says I
appreciated hearing Gerard's father
giving him tough love and this is in
response to his father finding out that
Gerard was selling weed at the time so
many successful men have been loved by
their mother and have had an absent
father how do you think the absence or
presence of a Father's love plays into a
man's success or failure
now that's a really good question I
don't feel that I'm necessarily
qualified to answer that so I was very
fortunate to grow up with both parents
and my gut instinct is that onejust
masculine energy for a guy is going to
be important but feminine energy I think
is also important and getting both of
those whenever possible in whatever way
possible so if you don't have a father B
of a father figure like that probably
works just as well I think that from
what I've seen read people have gotten
to know very well they grew up without a
father very much there is a an anger to
that a lot of times and that
chip-on-the-shoulder can serve or
destroy so it really comes down to how
that person internalized that and how it
drives them all that and I'll stop there
just because I don't I don't feel that
that's particularly something I
understand well fair enough we got
confirmation from our audience or
wonderful Facebook audience that she was
indeed a book keeper oh thank you Dan
there we go
and I just want to say thanks again for
everyone showing up and share that we do
have merch in the store if you want to
go check it out we've got shirts we have
mugs momentum matters shirts and dramas
wearing and we're going to be constantly
updating that and putting out new
designs and we want to hear your
feedback what do you like what you don't
like what you want to see on a shirt
what kinds of things would inspire you
you would be inspired to wear we want to
know and we can go and create them and
we're going to be taking designs Casey
and I for I believe I see walking hi
Casey we are working on getting the
Terms of Service so people know exactly
like how it pays out and all that stuff
so well I'll just pressure Casey a
little bit to give us a lawyer to dress
it up and get it on the website
hopefully when we do that in the next
say ten to fourteen days and then we can
start accepting designs and get very
sleek very cool all right here is a this
is a long one let's see if I can shorten
a little bit but it's for Margaret Rose
she have a question about Millennials
and organizational culture we have a
blend of early early career slash
Millennials
and established mature folks in our
company and yet we are trying to another
very piecey way of saying it in our
company and yet we are trying to
establish an one overall culture these
different demographics come at
challenges from a different place we
have a bit of a culture clash and are
having triple cent transcending it any
ideas about how to blend energy passion
and change the world idealism of early
career folks into a more established
regimented environment without asking
them to conform to our old ways or
losing what makes them so special yeah
so this is where you there are things at
the macro level about Millennials that I
think are important to be aware of and
then there are things at the macro level
of one of my Gen X of Gen X that's also
important to understand but at the end
of the day you've really got to dig into
the specifics of what is the company
culture are we conveying that right from
the beginning and then what are the
physics of human beings so yes at a
macro level I think Millennials have a
different perspective and simonson x
summed up so wonderfully in the
interview that we did that went insanely
viral and if you haven't seen it go to
impact Theory comm you can watch bored
slash blog and you can see the
Millennial question being answered just
amazingly well by Simon's neck but at
the same time like the physics of being
a human apply way more radically so dig
into Vanessa vent Edwards who's on the
show coming out and part of three or
four weeks and I think that's way more
important to understand like what does
that person motivated by what do they
what's their language of praise that
they understand understanding what they
want like what are they trying to be and
then making sure that you communicate
the culture of the company what's
acceptable what's not acceptable what
are we trying to achieve having a grand
vision as a company I think that's very
important make sure that that's
communicated looking at your onboarding
process so people really understand like
what's acceptable what's not acceptable
and then not segregating people by age
making sure that you're getting people
together in the
X with respect and you know this is
where it comes down to the individuals
if the Gen Xers and above don't respect
the Millennials you're going to have a
problem and if the Millennials don't
respect the other people you can have a
problem and that comes down to how
everybody treats everybody if everybody
has a growth mindset is open to new
ideas and runs everything to the filter
of okay here's our company mission whose
idea is actually going to move us
towards a company mission and then
holding yourselves accountable to that
and look the best idea win like when I
think back to quest and you know when we
we were big and it'd be like in the
early days it wasn't hard to manage the
generation gaps as we got bigger it was
like does everybody understand we're
trying to do as a company does everybody
actually believe in it and as everybody
operating with a growth mindset like if
we bake that into the onboarding process
if we bake that into like the company
culture like are those things real
enough that everybody is holding each
other to that standard because I think
if you're doing that then it doesn't
really matter like I don't have a hard
time I don't I certainly don't have a
hard time with any one person I'll back
up is a much easier way to explain it
when I was working the line and actually
making protein bars every day it was me
and a bunch of Millennials and
Millennials are supposedly lazy they're
supposedly entitled but if you're around
me [__] that noise like we are trying
like here's our goal for the day we're
going to produce this many bars and
you're going to see what hard work looks
like because I'm going to set the bar
and then people want to impress me they
want to be on my team they want to be
like a part of it so now they're trying
to work as hard as me and then when
somebody's being lazy and that's [__]
everybody else up I'm like what the [__]
like this is a standard look at like how
hard I work my hands were cramping
clothes last night it had me awake at
4:00 in the morning did I come in here
in [__] or did I come in here with a
smile like ready to [__] work and
also having shown so much respect giving
credit to people like when somebody did
something outstanding like really going
over the top like oh my god like you're
crushing it it's amazing and really
letting everybody know what
culture is how to uplift everybody that
we're a team that you need to celebrate
people's victories you need to give them
a safe space to grow and develop not to
punish mistakes but that we don't [__]
tolerate laziness under any circumstance
and so it was like they knew like before
the twenty five bullet points got
written they knew what they were like we
talked about it was part of the
onboarding process it was part of like
our everyday life and because of that
like you may have been the laziest most
entitled most stereotypical millennial
the day before you started working with
me but the day after like you wanted to
fit into the community and so the group
there was so much group pressure to be a
certain way and that was goal oriented
growth minded hard-working team oriented
and it was just I can't tell you the
amount of cultural pressure that there
was to conform to that and so literally
literally we had Bloods and Crips on the
same line there was no room for that
like we were working so hard and it was
so clear what we were trying to
accomplish that it just it was never a
problem that's amazing if I were to sum
that up I would I would say and correct
me if I'm wrong that it's you establish
culture by from the top and you do it by
example primarily yeah I mean you have
to have the messaging and intro then
it's like so take us for instance right
now we're super small so everybody
literally can hear me now they see my
work ethic so like just very easily
everyone has slipped into that same
routine everybody busts ass everyone
here works really hard believes in the
mission all that but now project out
five years and we've got 150 employees
or 250 employees suddenly if the
management structure has not totally
bought in to what we're doing what our
work ethic is all that like it'll get it
to fall apart Oh in it's so brutal and I
look I'm not saying it's easy this is
the thing I struggled with the most that
quest and felt like wow like we grew so
fast that I really have my arms around
it it's it's not
but it is exactly what has to happen
like there's no substitute and you
screen for people when you're
interviewing who you think can adapt to
that culture or I try but drive is the
one thing in fact I think you Girard and
I talked about this drive is the one
thing I don't know how to identify in an
interview I literally don't and the only
way is to work side by side with
somebody Mike if I could grab David
Goggins that person and myself and like
go out and do the damn thing and like
really suffer and let them see the
standard that I hold myself to and then
see like hey do I want to play like that
would work yeah you know if you could go
do a hard week with somebody and let
them see like what we're really
expecting and I remember I used to I
really really tried to say you had to
come work for us for a week before we
would hire you it's very hard obviously
for people to take that week off a and B
we were hiring so fast that like it just
wasn't realistic but every step away
from doing that is a mistake and you end
up with people that they're just not
they don't value it and so I won't even
ask them to believe that it's the right
way to live it is but I won't ask them
to believe it but if they don't value
that like that that is the problem it's
not like the Millenial like and like the
different generational stuff I promise
we'll we'll go by the wayside when
everyone has bought into the mission in
the work ethic nice all right a couple
shoutouts here on Facebook from Chris
Barry in Springfield Illinois
miss Perry and then says nice beard
aging Smith a heavy beard a heavy
they're like this is a little long it's
gone on troll I'm gonna I'm in a second
that knows yeah it'll probably come off
this week but thank you Chris manuela
from Austria hello Lauren Taylor in
Denver what's up LT and Joshua Martell
in virtual reality nice what's up Josh
our man with a plan okay let's do
another question from let's do a
question from Josh actually Joshua had
parents that loved me very much but
never push me to progress everyone is
really interested in this
parents shaping identity topic and
allowed me to give up every time there I
met a resistance I only learned to push
myself after coming in contact with
inside quest Tom where who do you think
you would be if your mom didn't push you
to get out even though she expected you
to fail you think your laziness with one
without that push man that is a hard
question to answer so my life would be
very different if she hadn't pushed me
to go to that school because I don't
think I ever would have ended up in LA
which is a little scary but and I have
to really think about like so in my
household it was straight A's were the
only thing that were acceptable and now
that trained me to be very clever I
won't say that it trained me to actually
work hard it trained me to get smart
about how I got my grades so I built
really strong relationships with very
smart friends who helped me oftentimes
just by like here's my homework copy it
and other times tutoring me if it was
because I won't say that like I didn't
have an inherent desire to achieve I
didn't want to cheat I would much rather
have learned it and so there were things
that I really did learn but at the same
time like when two things run conflict
like if there was a girl that I wanted
to talk to and that meant that I was
going to have less time to do my
homework and then I found it harder than
expected so I wasn't able to finish
everything
I was just know in the back of my mind
okay well I'm still going to get the a
I'm still going to like you know get my
friend to help me get through but in my
house like A's were it that was it and
so that was good that pressure was
awesome and then you were going to
college like it was never like a Oh like
what do you think you'll go like you
were going to college and so that was my
water right I didn't see it like I
remember when one of my friends was like
yeah am I going to go to college I was
like you can not go to college
it's literally I remember thinking it
was like this dumbfounding moment where
I was like it never occurred to me that
I could not go to college so that kind
of like excellence is the only answer
there's no question that like filtered
into my system somehow yeah but like the
one thing that I have a really hard time
like
pointing who gave me this thing was when
I went to college I said because this is
this is my passion and the thing that I
supposedly want to learn and I'm gonna
walk away with debt ERF sink or swim I'm
not going to cheat I need to learn this
I don't know what made me finally go
actually getting good as the only thing
that matters I don't remember where I
picked that up so that and and I don't
like that because I want to believe that
you can learn anything I don't want to
think that anything was like there was
just some part of my brain that was
pre-wired for that so I wish I actually
could remember having read it in a book
or something but that's the one thing
the one like sort of swing that
everything in my life hinged on that
moment clicking over finally and saying
I'm just going to work and when I hear
other people's stories of college
they're so foreign to me I didn't go I
wasn't in a fraternity I didn't go to
parties ever I didn't date at all I
didn't have a single drop of alcohol
like lit for four years all I did was
work and that set a age of willingness
to suffer delay gratification obsession
with goals getting great because I was
in film school like there was a real
scarcity mindset like only so many
people are going to go out into the real
world and gets direct so being great
here in school is like absolutely
critical so that notion of wanting to be
the best and all of that like those four
years were like this hardcore transition
was the first time in my life I lost a
lot of weight like most people put on
weight I lost like 35 pounds my freshman
year was crazy I came home my mom was
like you look back it was like but I was
like what are you talking about like I'm
so into this is amazing I'll stop there
and do you think it was because because
in high school we know you weren't that
way not at all you didn't work hard
correct but I ever tell you my
cross-country story so no good so I was
looking cross-country for four years but
I did it for a girl at least the first
year or four years now sore
so this is how it went really fast first
year I literally did it because I wanted
to be on the same team with her but she
was a senior and I was a freshman it was
my sister one of my sisters friends and
so she graduates and so I quit and like
yep I'm done no more cross country I
[__] hated it and if it wasn't for
her never yeah and but I'd sort of
become the team mascot
so I dude I'm telling you I'm wired I
love seeing other people win so I would
cheer people on so much these races that
it became like this thing like the whole
team would come with me because I would
just be so over the top come on yeah and
so even though I was the slowest person
in the league not on my team my friend
in the league when I said I wasn't
coming back the next year one of the
coaches was like I don't think you
understand how much you inspire people
on the team like you got to come back
because even though you're the slowest
you always show up and you do it now
what he didn't know was like I would
hide in the bushes so the rest of the
team had run by and go get doughnuts
that's actually a terrifying but true
story um but he was like you really
inspire people and so I ended up staying
the rest of the four years because that
meant something to me too like sure
people on and help them be successful
but what I was going to ask do you think
the changeover in college had something
to do with the fact that when you got
the USC you saw that you had an actual
shot but it was a very small window and
so you said I have to go hard on this
that's the only way I can get it
maybe the pursuit of excellence but no
that's not true what actually happened
there were a few key moments so this is
where a beauty and rage began to develop
so I didn't get accepted into film
school at first so that I didn't even
know that you had to apply separately
that's how ignorant I was okay my
parents didn't help me with that process
I had to do it all on my own which man I
did not understand any of it I did the
least amount of work humanly possible
and if my friends hadn't been like
giving me random piece of information
like you know there are applications you
have to fill out you know there are
deadlines for those applications right
so I had to do all of that and so I get
into USC but I didn't get into USC film
school sign name apply and there's only
two windows to get into film school as
an incoming freshman and as an incoming
junior so you're applying basically your
junior senior in high school anymore
when they do it or your
more year in college and so I came in as
a freshman now I started acting like I'd
already been accepted into film schools
the only thing that make sense to me I
was so convinced I was going to make it
happen and you then start encountering
people that have been accepted they look
at you like you are a [__] that you're
not already in film school they look
down on you like they're I it was like
discrimination but like in the most
offensive way like oh you haven't been
accepted I can't tell you how gross and
icky it was and that made me so angry
it was like I would just sit in my room
I'm gonna [__] crush all these people
like I'm I am going to dominate these
[__] and I was so angry at the
way that they look down on me and I just
I couldn't take it man I could not I was
determined to show them and that served
me and that's where like I just learned
like hey beauty does a lot of great
things but sometimes you just need to be
so mad that you're not going to tolerate
that you're going to win and so it
really and I can actually remember the
people I won't rat them out but I can
remember the people where I was when
they were treating me like that like
yeah so okay fair enough
that was part of it I won't say it was
all yeah let's try to get a couple more
questions in from our Facebook live
audience because they're being very
active today thank you for showing up
thank you guys
oh here's a shout-out Alex Covarrubias
is in the feed are you serious yes
everybody that's in the feed right now
and anybody watching this Alex
Covarrubias is one of the most
extraordinary human beings I've ever met
in my life and many of the stories that
I tell about being on the line and
working like this this guy is a lynchpin
like he is one of the ways that we kept
the Crips and the Bloods from like going
after each other he's an amazing I have
never seen human transformation as
profound as this guy I would tell you so
much more of his story if it was mine to
tell it is his story to tell but holy
Lord and I don't think he does anything
socially says not even anything for you
to do with that information
but I feel compelled to point that
all right so Alice I love you like a
brother my friend it is good to have you
in the feed I was just thinking about
you like today we got to hang out Bharat
you got to come to the house in fact
text me immediately you text me now and
that will remind me to ping you after
this yeah definitely
there it is what about all right has a
question from Vinny Brigance her
question is hi Tom I love the concept of
antifragility yeah would you be willing
to share one of your favorite ways to
apply this concept to your life and one
of the biggest impacts it has made yeah
so anti fragile what you build your
self-esteem around it is the most
critical place to implement that system
it changed my life it is the reason that
I was successful and generated wealth
just no two ways about it you need to
build your self-esteem around being the
learner always being willing to admit
that you're wrong and identifying the
right answer as fast as humanly possible
and I'm putting energy behind it those
are all anti fragile because if you're
the learner and somebody tells you that
you're stupid remember something that's
anti fragile means not that it is
resilient not that it is tough those are
still things that are defined by their
breaking point
that the more you attack it the stronger
it gets so if you build your self-esteem
around being the learner and somebody
says hey you're really stupid then the
only question is in what way because if
you tell me in what way I'm stupid now I
identify a blind spot and I can go go to
that and so I'm going to get stronger as
a result that that is anti fragile right
there and once you make that switch
because the world will try to attack you
some percentage not all of it
there are many amazing people in your
life but once you have an anti fragile
personality like nobody can hurt you
because as they throw those bricks at
you you realize you can build a house
those bricks you just have to be willing
to you know take the shot to the face
and then start building so that is the
most profound ways that antifragility
will serve you nice I want to hear a
little bit more before we go about your
experience going to founders especially
in relation to your mission to end
generational poverty yeah so founders is
amazing and I really really really
pleased if you were in this community no
matter when you're seeing this contact
Girard go there see it for yourself
it's on
believable so this is a guy that could
be right now living on Miami Beach in a
penthouse overlooking the Atlantic Ocean
the most beautiful part of the Atlantic
Ocean imaginable and instead of doing
that he decides he's going to move into
the ghetto and it's straight up to
ghetto like when you go I was a little
uncomfortable and I was like this is
gnarly
and he would walk you from like founders
own building building like their they've
taken over like multiple buildings in in
this part of this neighborhood and he
said he literally went to the worst part
of Newark and started buying these
buildings and turning them into amazing
things so they've got an art gallery
with local artists and some of the art
is amazing man I was literally like to
help like it was so cool and then like
seeing the entrepreneurs in the founders
building where they have live workspace
so I don't know what you have to do to
qualify to be one of the people and I
think they're like 20 units so one of
the people who live in the building but
they also have like a cafe so that they
can get healthy food to these people
actually smile evil and so like I was
saying in the episode I was just
randomly scheduled to give a lecture to
Rutgers and so when he pinged me I said
hey if you have space for me to do the
lecture for Rutgers and anybody in your
group wants to like hear it then then we
can make this work it's like oh my god
that'd be amazing so imagine me like at
the front of a classroom and he brings
all his entrepreneurs in and I give this
talk over Skype to Rutgers but I
happened to be in a crowd of whatever
there were 30 people or something there
in the room with me from founders and
the it was one of the most fun talks
I've ever given because their energy was
unbelievable and the only way I can
explain it is having worked in the inner
cities I'm telling you when you give
someone hope who has never experienced
hope like most of the people watching
this can't imagine that but there are
people right now growing up who like
this is my life right like if you ever
seen the reddit are /this in my life now
or whatever or maybe it just means I
don't remember but they come across my
feed my find them absolutely hilarious
so it'll be like a dog and there's like
eight cats like pinning him down and
like licking him and it's like this is
my life now that's a funny version of
people sell drugs and
corner my friends get shot and this is
my life and there's no sense of oh I can
get out of this yeah
so you're just stuck and this is my life
and I remember one of the kids crying
because he was like you care more about
my future than my own mother I for the
first time in my life have hope and I
remember when he said that I had never
realized that that these people that I
was working with everyday had no hope I
didn't even occur this is water right
like my life has always been filled with
hope and optimism all I had no idea that
they were showing up every day like
walking into a world unlike anything
they knew yeah and so I'm like you be
anything you want like what are you
talking about and then to hear him say
like this is the first time in my life
where I've had a hope I thought whoa
that's the vibe that founders you've got
this dis army of people who Gerard has
given hope to for the first time and
they're building real businesses and
they're like some of them are way far
down the path they've got branding
they've got packaging these aren't like
information products they're physical
goods and I was just freaking out
because to be in a group of that many
people in the middle of such a gnarly
area and for them to have hope for the
first time and be building things it was
just it's unreal and for you guys to go
there and give your support and document
it and encourage them and just I want
the word to get out about what your
order is doing because it's it's
important so Gerard and I have taken two
different approaches to the same problem
I believe the most scalable answer is
narrative Gerard has said okay maybe
this isn't the most capable answer but
I'm going to franchise this and I'm
going to go into the heart of these
places and give like a physical space
where people can go and so think of it
as probiotics and prebiotics right so
probiotics are the actual bacteria so
think of Gerard is that right like he's
the actual colony of amazing bacteria
that's going to make those neighborhoods
healthy again and then I'm trying to be
the prebiotic that feeds that and so
when I walked in I realized wow
is such a necessary part of what I'm
trying to do like somebody has to be
doing what he's doing so the fact that
he's doing it is is unbelievable that's
awesome it's great to hear all right
well I think we can wrap it up I'll
thank everyone on Facebook live and also
give my three takeaways which I haven't
done in a while nice so these are my
three takeaways from the episode which
if you haven't checked out please do
it's really good one is even when you
lose it all you can build it back up
again and that has been clear in
Gerard's life he's demonstrated that so
never forget that financial success is
nothing without fulfillment which he
talks about very eloquently in the
episode and then the last one is and
this is toward the end of the episode
which we didn't get to discuss here but
I really liked how he said take the time
to find out who you are and he actually
gives examples of how he went through
that process himself meditating he was
writing a lot and he was reflecting and
that was key to him setting creating
founders and understanding this is
really what he wanted to do in the world
so throughout those are my three
takeaways
thank you Facebook live for joining us
and if you if you want to check out our
store you can we got new shirts up there
so go check them out we've got posters
too and sign up to our newsletter if you
want exclusive content from us a letter
every week from Tom we're going to be
doing some interesting stuff there later
plus you'll get discounts to the store
periodically we'll do giveaways etc so
go sign up and impact Theory calm and
thank you there it is all right guys
thank you so much if you haven't already
be sure to subscribe this is a weekly
show and until next time my friends be
legendary
take care